.. title: Group
.. slug: group
.. date: 2015-01-25 21:58:41 UTC
.. tags: 
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text

I'm privileged to have, or have had, some kind of supervisory role in the
following scientists' careers. In mathematics, people work more independently
than the lab-based sciences, but the slightly inappropriate term 'Group' seems
to have stuck.

If you'd like to work with me at any career stage, please get in touch to
discuss scientific and funding possibilities. You'll see that 'alumni'
generally got to do interesting and worthwhile research and then go on to get
good jobs in academia, the public sector, and industry.

Postdoctoral
------------

* Jingsi Xu working on community transmission models linked to the ONS CIS
  data.  Workpackage led by `Ian Hall
  <https://www.research.manchester.ac.uk/portal/ian.hall.html>`__.

* `Joe Hilton <https://jbhilton.github.io/>`__, 
  research fellow in `Manchester Centre for Health Economics <https://sites.manchester.ac.uk/health-economics/>`__,
  also working on ONS CIS data.


Postgraduate
------------

* Joel Jones, working on MCMC, main supervisor `Simon Cotter
  <https://personalpages.manchester.ac.uk/staff/simon.cotter/>`__.

* Joe Brooks, working on household models.  Main supervisor `Lorenzo Pellis
  <https://www.research.manchester.ac.uk/portal/lorenzo.pellis.html>`__.

* Joe Flannagan, working on infection in care homes.  Main supervisor `Ian Hall
  <http://www.maths.manchester.ac.uk/people/staff/profile/?ea=ian.hall>`__
  co-supervised by `Lorenzo Pellis
  <https://www.research.manchester.ac.uk/portal/lorenzo.pellis.html>`__ and
  `Maria Zambon <https://researchportal.ukhsa.gov.uk/en/persons/maria-zambon>`__.

* Irene Garcia Munoz, working on infection in care homes.  Main supervisor `Ian Hall
  <http://www.maths.manchester.ac.uk/people/staff/profile/?ea=ian.hall>`__
  co-supervised by `Lorenzo Pellis
  <https://www.research.manchester.ac.uk/portal/lorenzo.pellis.html>`__ and
  `Maria Zambon <https://researchportal.ukhsa.gov.uk/en/persons/maria-zambon>`__.

* Fadilah Ilahi, working on modelling dengue. Co-supervised by `Ian Hall
  <http://www.maths.manchester.ac.uk/people/staff/profile/?ea=ian.hall>`__.

* Mwandida Afuleni, working on COVID in Malawi.
  Main supervisor `Olatunji Johnson <https://olatunjijohnson.github.io/>`__,
  co-supervised by `Ian Hall
  <http://www.maths.manchester.ac.uk/people/staff/profile/?ea=ian.hall>`__.

* Bunlang Thatchai, working on social networks dynamically generated by games
  and epidemics. Co-supervised by `Chris Overton
  <https://www.liverpool.ac.uk/mathematical-sciences/staff/christopher-overton/>`__.

Former
------

* `Roberto Cahuantzi <https://www.linkedin.com/in/roberto-cahuantzi/>`__,
  working on classification of SARS-CoV-2 lineages in collaboration
  with `Katrina Lythgoe <https://www.bdi.ox.ac.uk/Team/katrina-lythgoe>`__,
  `Ian Hall
  <https://www.research.manchester.ac.uk/portal/ian.hall.html>`__,
  and `Lorenzo Pellis
  <https://www.research.manchester.ac.uk/portal/lorenzo.pellis.html>`__. Destination:
  Postdoc in Manchester Faculty of Biology, Medicine and Health.

* `Feng Xu <http://www.drfengxu.com/>`__, working on an age-structured population model of the 
  COVID-19 pandemic in the UK including explicit representation of hospitals and care homes,
  in collaboration with
  `Jackie Cassell <https://www.bsms.ac.uk/about/contact-us/staff/professor-jackie-cassell.aspx>`__,
  `Jo Middleton <https://www.bsms.ac.uk/about/contact-us/staff/jo-middleton.aspx>`__,
  `Ian Hall
  <https://www.research.manchester.ac.uk/portal/ian.hall.html>`__,
  and `Lorenzo Pellis
  <https://www.research.manchester.ac.uk/portal/lorenzo.pellis.html>`__. Destination:
  Postdoc at University of Warwick.

* Claire Little, working on predicting chronic pain using statistical learning.
  Main supervisor `John Mcbeth <https://www.research.manchester.ac.uk/portal/john.mcbeth.html>`__.
  Co-supervised by 
  `Will Dixon <https://www.research.manchester.ac.uk/portal/will.dixon.html>`__
  and
  `David Schultz <https://www.research.manchester.ac.uk/portal/david.schultz.html>`__.
  Destination: Return to teaching mathematics in secondary education.

* Martyn Fyles, working on networks and statistical learning for infections. Funded
  by the `Alan Turing Institute <https://www.turing.ac.uk/>`__.  Co-supervised
  by `Ian Hall <https://www.research.manchester.ac.uk/portal/ian.hall.html>`__
  and `Lorenzo Pellis
  <https://www.research.manchester.ac.uk/portal/lorenzo.pellis.html>`__. Destination:
  Working at the UK Health Security Agency.

* Alex Koch, working on the circadian clock and FCS data. Main supervisor
  `Andrew Loudon
  <https://www.research.manchester.ac.uk/portal/andrew.loudon.html>`__.
  Co-supervised by `Korbinian Strimmer
  <http://www.strimmerlab.org/korbinian.html>`__. Destination: 

* Luke Webb, working on models of emergency response capacity. Main supervisor
  `Ian Hall <http://www.maths.manchester.ac.uk/people/staff/profile/?ea=ian.hall>`__;
  co-supervised by `Paul Dark
  <https://www.research.manchester.ac.uk/portal/paul.m.dark.html>`__. Destination:
  Working at the UK Health Security Agency.

* Bindu Vekaria, working on flexible clinical predictive models in
  collaboration with `Spectra Analytics <http://www.spectraanalytics.com/>`__.
  Main supervisor `Glen Martin
  <https://www.research.manchester.ac.uk/portal/glen.martin.html>`__;
  co-supervised by `Pauline Turnbull
  <https://www.research.manchester.ac.uk/portal/p.turnbull.html>`__.

* Xiaoxi Pang, working on influenza. Main supervisor `Ian Hall
  <https://www.research.manchester.ac.uk/portal/ian.hall.html>`__.
  Co-supervised by `Yang Han
  <https://personalpages.manchester.ac.uk/staff/yang.han/>`__. Destination:
  Postdoc at Nottingham.

* Hugo Lewkowicz, working on transmission in close contact settings and rapid
  diagnostics, MRC iCase with `Danaher <https://www.danaher.com/>`__.  Main
  supervisor `Ian Hall
  <https://www.research.manchester.ac.uk/portal/ian.hall.html>`__.
  Co-supervised by `Lorenzo Pellis
  <https://www.research.manchester.ac.uk/portal/lorenzo.pellis.html>`__ and
  `Andy Ustianowski
  <https://www.ncaresearch.org.uk/team/dr-andy-ustianowski/>`__. Destination:
  Working for Government.

* Heather Riley, working on household inference for the `ONS COVID-19 Infection
  Survey
  <https://www.ons.gov.uk/peoplepopulationandcommunity/healthandsocialcare/conditionsanddiseases/bulletins/coronaviruscovid19infectionsurveypilot/previousReleases>`__.
  Destination: Permanent job at the University of York.

* Jacob Curran-Sebastian, working on modelling and inference for combatting
  antimicrobial resistance.  Main supervisor `Ian Hall
  <https://www.research.manchester.ac.uk/portal/ian.hall.html>`__.
  Co-supervised by `Lorenzo Pellis
  <https://www.research.manchester.ac.uk/portal/lorenzo.pellis.html>`__.
  Destination: Postdoc in Denmark.

* Rajenki Das, working on mood-pain endotype discovery in mHealth data with `Microsoft
  Research <https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/people/dabelgra/>`__. Co-supervised
  by `Mark Lunt <https://www.research.manchester.ac.uk/portal/mark.lunt.html>`__
  and `Mark Muldoon <https://personalpages.manchester.ac.uk/staff/mark.muldoon/>`__.
  Destination: Postdoc in Cambridge.

* `Miguel Silva <http://www.dcc.fc.up.pt/~msilva/index.html>`__, working on
  health information diffusion in social networks, main supervisor
  `Caroline Jay <https://www.research.manchester.ac.uk/portal/caroline.jay.html>`__
  Destination: Postdoc in Portugal.

* `Francesca Scarabel <https://sites.google.com/view/scarabelfrancesca/home>`__, working
  on models of epidemics with continuous representation of immune 
  competence in collaboration with `Ian Hall
  <https://www.research.manchester.ac.uk/portal/ian.hall.html>`__,
  and `Lorenzo Pellis
  <https://www.research.manchester.ac.uk/portal/lorenzo.pellis.html>`__,
  as well as other members of the supporting
  `JUNIPER Consortium <https://maths.org/juniper/>`__. Destination: Lectureship at
  The University of Leeds.

* `Jack McKenzie <https://www.linkedin.com/in/jackmack/>`__, working on recommender systems, PhD funded by `Autotrader
  <http://www.autotrader.co.uk/>`__,
  co-supervised by `Neil Walton <https://sites.google.com/site/neilwaltonswebsite/>`__.
  Destination: Working for `Huawei Technologies Research \& Development
  <https://www.huawei.com/uk/corporate-information/research-development>`__. 

* `Filippo Pagani <https://filippopagani.github.io/>`__, working on MCMC, main supervisor `Simon Cotter
  <https://personalpages.manchester.ac.uk/staff/simon.cotter/>`__.
  Destination: Postdoctoral position at the 
  `MRC Biostatistics Unit <https://www.mrc-bsu.cam.ac.uk/people/in-alphabetical-order/n-to-s/filippo-pagani/>`__
  in Cambridge. 

* `Tim Kinyanjui <https://www.research.manchester.ac.uk/portal/timothymuiruri.kinyanjui.html>`__,
  working on robust mathematical modelling of Household Epidemics.
  Destination: Working for `Peak AI <https://peak.ai/>`__.

* `Alex Bishop
  <http://www2.warwick.ac.uk/fac/cross_fac/complexity/people/students/dtc/students2013/bishop/>`__,
  working on macroparasitic infections, main supervisor `Deirdre Hollingsworth
  <http://www2.warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/maths/people/staff/hollingsworth/>`__.
  Destination: Working for `Nesta <https://www.nesta.org.uk/team/alex-bishop/>`__.

* `Liz Buckingham-Jeffery
  <http://www.maths.manchester.ac.uk/people/staff/profile/?ea=e.buckingham-jeffery>`__,
  working on real-time methods in mathematical epidemiology and modelling cancer radiotherapy.
  Destination: Postdoc at the University of Manchester with `Lorenzo Pellis
  <https://www.research.manchester.ac.uk/portal/lorenzo.pellis.html>`__, then working for
  Highways England.

* `Ed Hill
  <http://www2.warwick.ac.uk/fac/cross_fac/complexity/people/students/dtc/students2012/hill/>`__
  working on influenza, co-supervised by `Mike Tildesley
  <https://www2.warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/lifesci/people/mtildesley/>`__.
  Destination: post-doc at the University of Warwick. 

* `Rob Eyre
  <http://www2.warwick.ac.uk/fac/cross_fac/complexity/people/students/dtc/students2013/eyre/>`__,
  working on health networks in a resource-poor setting, main supervisor
  `Frances Griffiths <http://www2.warwick.ac.uk/fac/med/staff/griffiths/>`__.
  Destination: working for `Spectra Analytics
  <http://www.spectraanalytics.com/>`__. 

* `Lorenzo Pellis
  <https://www.research.manchester.ac.uk/portal/lorenzo.pellis.html>`__, postdoc on
  various aspects of mathematical epidemiology. Destination: Wellcome Trust
  personal fellowship, and Professor at the University of Manchester.

* `Matt Graham
  <http://www2.warwick.ac.uk/fac/cross_fac/complexity/people/students/dtc/students2009/graham/>`__,
  PhD on network epidemiology. Destination: Postdoc at Johns Hopkins.

* `Dan Sprague
  <http://www2.warwick.ac.uk/fac/cross_fac/complexity/people/students/dtc/students2010/sprague/>`__,
  PhD on modelling health behaviours, co-supervised by `Gareth Roberts
  <http://www2.warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/statistics/staff/academic-research/roberts/>`__.
  Destination: founding `Spectra Analytics
  <http://www.spectraanalytics.com/>`__.

* Ashley Ford, Postdoc on geometric and gradient-based MCMC for shedding data
  and epidemics.  Destination: Postdoc at University of Bristol.

* Sam Bilson, Postdoc on geometric MCMC for shedding data.  Destination:
  Visiting Lecturer at St Mary's, then tech industry.
 
* Sam Mason, MRes on MCMC for 1918 Influenza, co-supervised by `Matt Keeling
  <http://www2.warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/maths/people/staff/matt_keeling/>`__.
  Destination: PhD at Warwick Systems Biology.

